# evilbot
an evil bot for dastardly and dangerous tasks and services

## intent
- I gutted my old desktop for a major system upgrade. Needed a better NAS so I rebuilt the motherboard/CPU/RAM/GPU into a shelving unit and threw some HDDs on it.
- I figured I could use the GPU, though underpowered for true modern workloads, for some local LLM stuff. The idea of a personal coding/knowledge assistant and anthropomorphized self-administrating system had obvious appeal.
- I chose a virtualization-first host OS so that I could run a variety of workloads, with the flexibility to use full VMs and containers as needed.

## principles/core concepts: demonology 101
- Tools are how humans do more, better, and faster. The point of automation is to handle everything that I don't want to engage with--repetitive tasks first and foremost, and now, with the advent of LLMs, first-time ones too, where I am just not as interested in the implementation details as I am the output.
- It is obvious as soon as you start coding with LLM assistance that you would, ideally, set the machine up with a sufficiently-detailed task definition and set of tests to determine if it has completed the task, and then let it iterate until tests pass; task complete, new system/feature/tool now online. It is equally obvious that giving something you don't control and are in fact trying not to closely monitor unfettered access to your system is a risky proposition.
- I conceptualize LLMs as demons in the Solomonic tradition: alien intelligences that we attempt to bind and make do our bidding that, given the opportunity, will destroy us for our arrogant folly. This attitude of depthless paranoia naturally leads to an effective security posture: as the demon's agency increases, so too must increase the rigor and sophistication of the methods used to restrict and direct its actions. Firewall = summoning circle. You would be a fool to think that the ancient, otherworldly power you have locked in a cage to do something with which you can't be bothered to get your hands dirty will warm up to you as you check the locks.
- However--a demon confined only to its cage, unable to act on the world around it, is only helpful insofar as all you need it to act on exists in that cage. There are many cases where giving an LLM full control over a firewalled sandbox environment and letting it rip is extremely useful--developing an app or a system module, eg. But if you want it to make ongoing changes to a system, especially if you want to be able to use it on the host OS itself, you need to get more nuanced with your approach.
    - For the former, strictly sandboxed containerized environments, spun up as needed, are simple and a good fit. Infrastructure as Code patterns naturally evolve; create a provisioned sandbox for the task, develop the app inside, commit to Github. Put the sandbox on ice in case it is needed later.
    - For the latter, the bot must be able to reach out and make changes to the target system, in a semi-supervised way. We want to determine what classes of actions are okay for it to take by itself, and which ones require our supervision and approval, balancing speed/efficiency/laziness with security. A set of rules governing behavior, intended to confine and channel a demon. Now we are into demonic contracts, an area where Satan famously excels. Good luck.
        - Fortunately, if we are canny, we can prepare ourselves for the inevitable monkey's paw and rewind time back from a bad config change. This is where backups, CI/CD, and again IaC come in. Demonology, in fact, has a significant devops component.